www.nieco.com
text nieco nieco
Just before Christmas, I witnessed  something extraordinary. I stood in
a room with two robots that were  starting to do something distinctly
human. They were learning like  young children do, when they
discover the world for the first  time. They were developing a
language, one that I didn't  understand. It's quite scary. Oh,
gosh, it's asked me to do something.  More and more of the things we once
thought made us human are now being  taken on by machines. I want to
find out how close we are to  creating artificial intelligence.
And what that might mean for us as  human. As a mathtition, should I be
worried that they may put me out of  a job, or could they extend human
intelligence in unimaginable new  ways? What are these machines? Or,
In February 2011, New York was a  seen for a very public test of how
clever machines have become. A  showdown watched by millions, took
place between two men and a  supercomputer. The arena for this
battle was a quiz show called  Jeopardy. It's one of the most
popular and long-running quiz shows  in America. It's famous for its
Fortunately, those in mankind's  corner had no problem with these
questions. One of the two human  contestants was Brad Rutter, the
show's biggest-ever money winner.  He became a five-time champion,
earning a record $3.2 million.  long as I can remember, I grew up
with Jeopardy and by the time I was  in high school I started realising
I knew the answers to most  questions and if I ever get a
chance to try out, I think I can do  pretty well. If wow have told me
how well I would actually do I  would have said you were crazy, but
$3.2 million later here I am.  the newcomer. This is Watson.
Watson was one of the most  sophisticated AI computers ever
built. Sitting in the audience was  his creator. We wanted to do this
kind of experiment, this  illustration of what would it take
for a computer to play Jeopardy  against a human. A brain that fits
in a shoebox powered on a glass of  water and sandwich then you have a
computer 80 kilowatts of  electricity and 20 tonnes of air
conditioning. This is what it took.  In the lead-up to the match, Watson
had to learn how to play the game.  In effect, it had to be coached.
One of the most difficult tasks it  faced was to get to grips with the
cryptic format of the game, where  the contestants are first given the
answer and have to come up with the  question. This queen fled to London.
It had to go through the 200  million pages of information it had
been programmed with and find the  answer in just three seconds.
famous clown or any incompetent  fool? Who is Bozzo. After four
years of development, Watson was  considered ready for the challenge.
Let's play Jeopardy. Here we go.  was a really, really tense moment.
If I was going to fail we were  going to fail in front of - This
was real jeopardy? This is real.  You were putting yourself on the
line. This was real and live.  People are going to route for the
people rather than the machine, so  we felt a little bit of pressure,
but also a great opportunity to  kind of represent humanity against
encroaching technology, shall we  say? Four-letter word for a vantage
point or belief? What is a view.  You have adrenaline going. It was
an open playing field. Anything  could happen. Who can Grendell
is the 1930s? After the first round  of the first game, Watson was tied
with Brad at about $5,000. Into a  tie for the lead. I think everyone
sat there and thought at least we  didn't lose. In other words, at
least at this point, the awedients  is understanding -- audience is
understanding that the system is  good to tie a grand champion.
close for comfort. I remember that  moment when I first heard about
Watson. I thought what a key moment  for AI. We have already programmed
a computer to beat humans at chess,  but chess is a vertical thought
process, where you are making deep,  logical connections. Watson is
doing something completely  different and thinking horizontally,
accessing a huge database. This is  machine intelligence taken in a new
direction. The computer is starting  to think in a multi-dimensional way.
How the game would unfold was to  change the way many people think
about artificial intelligence,  including me. But in order to
understand the real significance of  Watson, I need to know where this
dream to replicate our intelligence  For thousands of years, we have
invented machines to do things for  us. But there was one moment in
history where we realised they  weren't just slaves, but had the
potential to be our rivals. Or even  I've come to the place where this
realisation first came to life. It  was in this building, that the
search for artificial intelligence  began. What happened here still
resonates today. The idea that  machines could be intelligent like
us was sparked by one man. He was  the brilliant man, Alan Turing and
he's a real hero of mine. When he  was a young man in his 20s he came
to work here at Bletchley Park, as  a code breaker. This was the home
of British intelligence at the time.  It was the 1930s and Britain was
gearing up to war with Germany. As  well as needing the brute force of
the military, the Government were  gathering a crack team hear. And
his genius was precisely what was  needed at this time of national
The main problem that he had to  wrestle with whilst here, was this.
It's an enigma machine and it's an  incredibly clever piece of kit. It
was used by the German military to  scramble secret messages into code
that nobody could understand.  Cracking this code was incredibly
difficult for humans. The Germans  believed that the code was
uncrackable. It was up to human  minds to decipher the cryptic
communication that was picked up on  the airwaves. This was an
impossibly long task. We were on  the brink of war and didn't have
time to waist. -- waste. The  machine consists of a key board
that I will type my message on to  try to encode it. If I press an R,
then the wires in the machine go  through and light up a letter at
the top here, so the R was encoded  by theler N, but the incredible
thing is, about the machine, if I  press R again it doesn't get
encoded by N the next time, because  these rotas have kicked on one step
and so the wires are connecting up  the letters in a completely
different way now. So when I now  press R it is F. The operators had
different ways that they could set  up the machine, so they can make a
choice, for example, of which rotas  they were using, so there were five
different rotas and they would  choose three and they could put
them inside in different orders.  Then they would set each of the
rotas on one of 26 different  settings and then not only that,
they had some plugs at the front  here, which would also scramble up
all of the letters, so the combined  effect is that there are over 150
Slobodan Milosevic different ways  that the machine can be -- million,
million, million, different ways  that the machine can be set up. It
really was human against machine.  Alan Turing and his team realised
the human mind wasn't fast enough  to do this and the only hope they
had of cracking the code was to  create another machine to do it.
This is the incredible machine that  he and his colleagues created. It's
called the Bomb. It was from this  mesh of cogs and switches held
together by over ten miles of wire  that finally came the ability to
crack the code on a daily basis.  Something that no human had come
close to being able to do. What  this machine did changed the course
of the war and many regard as  crucial to the allied victory over
In one sense, this machine was just  a collection of cogs and wheels.
But it could do something that some  of the finest finds in Britain
couldn't. It was an unsettling  moment. Was this machine cleverer
than a human? That is an incredibly  satisfying sound. It must have been
an amazing moment when they  switched it on for the first time,
seeing the cogs clicking through  all the different possibilities,
getting a possible setting in ten  minutes what would have taken
humans weeks to try to find. To see  this machine solve a problem that
many regarded as impossible, it  must have really fired Alan
Turing's imagination. This was  built to crack the enigma code, but
he must have begun to think about  what was the limit of what machines
could do? Once the war was over,  his ideas about machines that could
mimic the human mind really started  to take shape. But it was when he
asked the question, can a machine  think in a paper in 1950, that the
idea finally sparked people's  imaginations. For many, it conjured
up terrifying visions of the future  and sparked furious debate. But it
was this idea, above any other,  than inspired scientists in labs
across the world to try to re-  create what is essentially us. The
hunt for artificial intelligence  has become tied up with one
technology, the computer. At the  heart of it is the simple idea that
humans and computers aren't so very  different. The central thesis of AI
is that actually all human thought  is just computation, that the mind
and the brain are just a  sophisticated sort of machine. So,
if you could make a big enough  computer, with the best software,
you can make a copy of the human  So riveted by the man versus
machine Jeopardy game. Because at  estheart, it was so much more than
just a TV showdown. Hoare was a  machine that could grapple with
natural language, as well as any  human. -- here. Including pun,
riddles and complex questions  across a broad range of knowledge.
Please welcome Watson. At the end  of the first round, the
supercomputer Watson was neck and  neck with human Brad. But as the
second round began, the computer  started to show what it was really
capable of. Watson who is... Frans  list. Who is the church lady. It
all fell apart from Ken and me the  second day. Watson went on a tear.
What is violin. It ex exceeded  expectations Watson dominated the
entire thing. The final blow for  human kind was when Watson went on
to win a bonus question. Answer...  Which doubleded his score. When
Watson hit the daily double that  was pretty much the end of the road
ch you could see the look on Ken's  face, we knew, the guys in the team,
that "It was over, we've won."  Watson's landslide victory made
headlines across America. I would  have thought technology like this
was years away but it is here now.  I have the bruised eco-to prove it.
For days after the interhet was  alive with chatter about the demise
of humanity. Here was a computer  that was displaying uniquely human
qualities. This machine could  understand all the complexities,
puns and riddles much faster than  any human. But was this true
artificial intelligence? Was Watson  really thinking like us? The 1980s
the American philosopher John  Searle challenged the idea whether
a machine could ever really think.  He came up with an interesting
thought experiment to try and prove  his idea. It is called the Chinese
Room. I am going to try and put  that into practise to explore his
He imagined a non-Chinese speaking  person like me, in a bare room,
with an instruction manual, and a  selection of Chinese characters. He
then imagined someone who could  speak Chinese, to be outside the
room, communicating with me, by a  series of messages written using
Chinese characters. Can you speak  Chinese? The messages are posted to
me through a door. And I have to  come up with a response, even
though I don't understand a word of  Chinese. OK I haven't got a clue
what this says. But if I follow the  instructions in this book, I should
be able to give some sort of  response to this question, which
will make some sort of sense, so  let's have a look. What do I have
to find? There is a little one over  X symbol. The book tells me to find
an exact match of the message on  the top half of the page. And then
to reply by copying the Chinese  characters from the bottom half of
the page. That is interesting. Some  of the characters appear in the
answer, which makes some sense.  Gosh, I don't know whether these
are the right way round. That looks  like a little house with a roof on
the top. I need this character here.  Oh yes. Bingo! Who knows what I
have just said! Can you speak  Chinese? He compared the person in
the room making up the Chinese  message, to a computer reading a
bit of code. Have you been to  No I haven't been to China but
would one day like to. I am just  faking I can speak Chinese. So just
how convincing was I? You your  Chinese was perfect. If we were on
line having a chat like that, you  would have been convinced you were
talking to... I really really would.  I would have thought you were
someone who spoke Chinese.  Chinese Room I think is an
important thought experiment. Not  for the answers it offers but more
for the questions it raise, because  I certainly didn't understand a
word of what I was writing down  there, yet I seem to be able to
fake the fact I was speaking  Mandarin, so if a computer is
following instructions, isn't  really thinking, is it? But then
again, what is my mind doing when I  am actually articulating words now?
It is following a set of  instructions, so it raises the
question, where is the threshold?  What point can you they a machine
is really understanding and  thinking? So, our bigger and faster
machines going to bring us closer  to this threshold? Since John
Searle came one the Chinese Room  experiment computer power has been
doubling every two years. I am off  to see one of the most powerful
computers that exists in the world  today. We enter the lab I need to
warn you it will be very noisy. You  will need some ear protection.
What is the noise? So that is all  cold air blowing through the racks,
to cool off the computer chip.  Because they are working so hard.
Because they are working so hard.  This is the first time I have done
an interview with ear plugs in.  This beast of a machine called Blue
Gene is a phenomenal piece of  engineering. It is used to perform
the kind of calculations that my  brain could never do, and it never
has to sleep. Fred Mintzer is the  naers inventor and Cray to have
Blue Gene. -- master. So this is  first generation Blue Gene rack.
Its commutational performance is  5.6 Terra nops a second. A teraflop
is a million million operations per  second. Faster than I can go.
Faster than you can go. How many  have you got. We have 16 Rab rack,
they all work in parallel. That is  60,000 processors and a performance
of 91 teraflops a second. Blue Gene  is solving complex calculations
about biological processes. It  would take me the rest of my life
to do what this computer can do in  an hour. But is it really being
intelligent? Or is it just doing  what it is told? The real
intelligence comes from the  programmer. It is totally
programmed intelligence. Would you  say it's a big number cruncher.. It
is an enormous number cruncher. But  it the doing the things our brains
could never get anywhere near.  computers are good at computation,
brains do much more. It is  impressive to see just how powerful
they have become. This firepower  you have with Blue Gene is
something my brain could get  nowhere near, but then again, with
when I am doing maths it is not  just doing number crunching. I am
doing more than that. The brain is  working, making leap, a lot of
imagination, there is a lot of  choices involved, which often
involve a kind of aesthetic  sensibility. I am not saying a ma
sheen like that might not be able  do that but at the moment it is a
sheer brute force crunching. It  hasn't captured what my brain can
do. These other qualities that  inare inhe want hernt in how man
intelligence, like creativity and  imagine nation, are what make us so
unique. And they are the reason  that the quest for artificial
intelligence is such an interesting  and difficult challenge. There is
no reason to think that a computer  couldn't one day develop these
qualities too. But to do this,  scientists have got to get o grips
with exactly how well develop them  At the heart of human intelligence
lies ourable to learn to do things  we have never done before. Which is
what has borough me here. And that  is not me by the way. I have joined
the circus an my challenge is to  walk the tightrope. Not something
mathematicians normally do. My  instructor for the day is Lila.
are nervous. It is not that. There  we go. This is a training wire.
So... This isn't the real thing.  is. It is the same you will feel on
the high wire. You don't have the  fear fabg - factor because you can
stand over it safely. The other one  there is a bit of jeopardy. No, it
is just... You could get a body  bubble edouble. He is wearing a red
shirt! See, no movement. So once  upon a time he couldn't do that. He
wasn't born being able do that.  That is something he learned.
I should have the confidence that I  can learn this new skill.. You know
the younger you learn something...  What are you saying? I am saying it
is easier. You saying I am too old.  No, not at all. I am going to do
this. Lila can't programme me with  a set of rules. Unlike a computer,
my brain and my body have to master  this by themselves. As a
mathematician I know there is a  formula to describe what is going
on here. But I can't calculate my  way out of this. I just have to do
Let your muscles do the thinking.  Turn your brain off a bit. I have o
do things with my body and I have  to think and counter act certain
things which I shouldn't do. There  is a guy over there, who can just
sort of skip and dance across.  Hands up. Hands up. Hands up!
trying to concentrate on the wall  over there and keep my hand up, I
am trying to keep this leg straight,  and maybe I am thinking too much.
think, we have to get some of it  into muscle memory so you don't
think about that, that it comes  naturally. As I flail round on the
tightrope, I can see the  complicates physics I am asking my
brain and body do to master this  new skill. It is this idea that the
brain and body work together. That  is taking the hunt for AI in a
I have come to meet a scientist who  has built the world's first
anthropomimetic robot. Which means  it mimics the hue -- human body.
Because he believes that our fiscal  form actually helps shape the way
we think. Without a body,  artificial intelligence cannot
exist. 6. What we are interested in  is how the brain controls body and
having built the body we have  realised what a serious problem
that. Can I interact with it?  you like to shake hands with it?
Yes, provided it doesn't clonking  me anywhere sensitive. Give its
hand a good squeeze and a shake.  It's squeezing back. It's really
responding to contact with me,  picking up something. It gives
people the sensation of interacting  with something that in a way of
really like themselves. This robot  called Ecce Robot has no blood or
skin or flesh, but ha bones, joints,  muscles and tendons that move like
ours, so it's able to have human  interactions. This is an
extraordinary piece of engineering,  but how does it help in getting
insight into intelligence? We are  interested in what is known as
embodied intelligence. This is the  idea that your intelligence is not
an abstract free intelligence, but  tied very much to having a body and
in particular to having a human  body. In order to investigate this,
what we have to do was build a  robot that had as near to a human
body as we can manage and  investigate the way it interacts
with the world and enables it to  develop a particular sort of
intelligence for dealing with  objects and so on. Once we get on
that track we'll be able to see how  that intelligence, how that is
actually determined and conditioned  by its body. You think it will be
distinct from the sort of  intelligence that - does it know
I'm talking about it? The  intelligence that before they were
doing things in robots, computers  and that doesn't have a sense of a
body, it's a box? What happened  when people started trying to make
robots that were controlled by AI  and computers, is that they found
that the things that we thought  would be difficult like playing
drafts or something like that were  extremely easy. What was difficult
was moving the pieces. The  interaction with the world is very,
very difficult and requires a lot  of computation, but we are
completely unaware of this. What  about the ultimate goal of things
like imagination or consciousness,  this would actually become
conscious of its own body? I like  to think it's the most interesting
question of all, but there are lots  of problems to overcome before we
get to that stage. I happen to  believe it will be possible one day
to build a machine that will have a  kind of consciousness, whether it's
the same consciousness as ours,  whatever that means, will be an
issue. I don't really believe we  are going to arrive at
consciousness with a disembodied  computer. This robot suggests that
human intelligence simply cannot be  divorced from the human body that
created it. The hunt for AI has  ended up on an alternative path.
It's not about hardware and  software, but about trying to
replicate human biology. Back at  the circus school, I'm still having
problems with my own body as I  continue to struggle to get across
the tightrope. Take that leg off  right away. Good. Up, up. Come on,
fight it. It's a battle. You think  this isn't going to work, but the
minute you reach up you are pulling  yourself back in line. It doesn't
seem logical. It really didn't. I  was thinking that will do that. I
feel there are lots of instructions  going on here and I've got to try
to put them together and maybe I'm  - well, I don't know, whether I'm
ever going to be able to do this.  This is something -- is this
something instinctive I'll be able  to learn, or whatever? Move, move,
move. If you are doing maths, you  are thinking, thinking, you need to
clear that. This feels really alien.  But when I take a step back I
realise that I've done something  very similar to this before. That's
when I learnt to walk as a child.  Really relax your brain. Hands up.
Step. Come on. I need to get mean  now. Hands up. What's truly
remarkable about our brains is that  everything we learn to do from
seeing, thinking, walking and  talking, becomes automatic when
practice. Go, go, go. Don't rush.  Hands up. Hands up! We'll try a
little bit of military technique.  Use a whip now! This ability to
learn to do something instinctively,  without even thinking about it, is
what makes us human. Getting a  machine to do this is one hell of a
task. Getting a computer to see has  become one of the most difficult
challenges in AI. Our vision is key  to our intelligence. Without it how
would we perceive the world around  us? The one scientist -- for one
scientist, the challenge has been  to get a computer to be able to
monitor and interpret CCTV footage,  like a human does. You would think
with the power of computers and a  mainframe in here scanning all the
programmes we can write, you would  be able to pick up We haven't
written the programme that can do  this sort of thing. It's so
difficult for a computer to pick  out the needles in the haystacks.
Our brains have learnt to control  our eye movements effortlessly,
taking in the whole seen. We  instantly combine this with our
previous knowledge of what a car,  bus, person or building looks like.
In less than seconds we can make  sense of all the activity that's
going on in busy Piccadilly Circus.  For a computer to recognise just
one of these elements, is almost  impossible. James wants to show me
why this is. This is a simple  programme to demonstrate how
difficult vision is. What it does  is remove our hardware, our vision
processing hardware from the  problem, so we have to process each
bit of the image piece by piece,  rather like a computer has to.
challenge is to try to recognise a  few familiar faces. It's through a
tiny dot on the screen. Is this  somebody I should know? Yep, you
should know all of these. OK. I've  found the eye. OK. I've got a bit
of clothing there. Check shirt.  Exactly. You can put all this
together, Marcus. Then I should get  it? Yeah. I don't know. Give in on
that one. Stephen Hawking.  again. Another face. It's weird, I
can pick out eyes and nose and  mouth. Putting that all together in
bits, but it doesn't have enough  hair for Einstein. It's relevant
for this programme. OK. Alan Turing.  We'll have one more. Beyond picking
out that this is a face, I think  just the little pieces kind of
piece by piece - all right, it's me.  I don't spend ages looking at me.
It really demonstrates how  difficult it is. A computer can
only interpret one small business  of the image at a time. But we have
learnt to piece all the pixels  together and see the whole thing
with no effort at all. James has  been wrestling with the problems
for years. He has done something  really interesting, I think. He's
developed a piece of software that  uses ground-breaking technology to
recognise individuals in a crowd.  He wants to use me as a guinea pig.
What we'll do now is take you out  on to the streets and track you out
and about. This means tracking you  as you go within a camera and then
when you move on to a different  view, we'll track you into the new
camera and try to find you there  and carry on to see how far we can
take you. I'll be passing under the  gaze of the Dons of CCTV cameras in
and around Piccadilly Circus. --  dozens. It's difficult for a
computer to pick out, because as I  walk through the different camera
shots my size and position changes  all the time. Whereas we can
separate what is me and what isn't  without even thinking about it.
James' computer system gives each  person a sequence of numbers and
then attempts to recognise  individuals by matching their
number between all the different  camera views. On the right-hand
side of the screen we can see where  the computer has successfully
picked me out of the crowd on my  journey around central London. In
the end, I was tracked across five  views as I walked a quarter of a
mile. James is making real progress  in getting a computer to recognise
what it's looking at. But there's a  deeper question at stake here. --
steak here. It's not just about --  stake here. It's not just about
assigning objects, but what we see.  It's something that humans working
here don't have a problem with.  don't think we'll get rid of the
human intervention. On a Friday or  Saturday night, we see lots of
people, the ones who have had a  drink will mess about and play
fight. I don't think a computer  would be able to tell the
difference between a real and play  fight, because we can look at the
expressions on faces and see if  they're smiling or if they're angry,
so I don't think we're at that  stage. The chaos of the urban
jungle. Exactly. The human eye is  still better. We are programmed to
pick out something unusual. That's  weird. What are you found there?
pair of shoes on a seat. I was  curious as to why they are there.
It's kind of strange. I've looked  around to see who they might belong
to why they might be there, a  couple of people have sat down next
to them and walked away, so you  know they're not theirs, but I
don't think a computer can be  programmed with the level of
curiosity and that's a natural  human emotion. This desire to
understand meaning is absolutely at  the forefront of artificial
intelligence right now. Our brains  do it by learning complue
experience and it's become a really  -- through experience and it's a --
it's become a really complex  experience. I'm being reminded
today what a great human thing it  is to be able to learn something
through experience. You would learn  this pretty quick if you thought a
crocodile was under you. Trying to  get across a wire encapsulates all
the problems involved in getting a  machine to do a new task. Through
the process of learning by  experience we are able to combine
all the different abilities that  are needed. Like body control,
reasoning and instinct. I've tried  everything to get across this wire.
Nothing seems to be working. But  then Leila comes up with one little
thing. Try a little song. It  releases any little tune. I'm
chatting to you now to try to relax  you a bit. La, la, la, la. Keep
coming, don't stop. Keep the leg  down. Keep coming. Keep it small.
Hands up. Hands up. Come on! That  was so easy. You were there.
close and then my hand went down.  What you just did there, right to
that point, looked really easy. I  thought you can cracked this. I
don't know, sometimes the last, the  anticipation, it's the last step or
something. This is the last bit.  You've got it, so keep that
momentum going. We can't fully  explain how our brains learn in
this way. I don't know where the  huming is helping, but it is.
rush. Oh, yes, I'm rushing. Mm, mm,  Hand up. Leg off, hand up. Hand up.
Little steps. Hands up. Hand up.  Hand up. Yes! It wasn't elegant.
Frpbts it was pretty elegant.  Perfect. Well done. That is an
amazing feeling to be able to get  from one end of the tightwire to
the other. But that is the amazing  thing about human intelligence,
just how adaptable it is, how I can  go from nothing to learning a new
skill like doing the tightwire. If  you think about a computer, you
would have to programme it  especially to be able to do such a
something different and for it to  be lost again. Perhaps we can try
the trapeze now? Yes, sure, great!  One other human quality we like to
celebrate, and often link to  intelligence, is creativity. I have
come to Paris, where the streets  are steeped in artistic culture. I
am here to visit an unusual  artist's studio. Run by computer
scientist Simon Colton, who is  normally based at Imperial College
London. All these immap -- images  have been created not by him but by
a computer. Because Simon wants to  find out if it is possible to break
down the creative process into a  set of instructions. That is why I
started simulating paint strokes.  And this is a good example of that.
As well as programming it with  painting techniques, Simon gives
the computer rules about different  artistic styles. We can choose a
painting style according to the  emotion of the sitter. So it is
kind of feeding off its suant and  trying to tap in and appreciate its
mood. His of her mood and express  that through the art. I can see
what a difficult task this is. But  there is one image that has really
caught my eye. I love this one.  Lots of comments from people.
is what dancers? That is right. But  these people don't really exist.
This isn't a photo that, or a video  it has looked at. It is taking some
concept of people fed into it.  you watch it being painted it
paints it all in one stroke. This  is a single line. Is that is what
is giving it this sense of energy  and motion? That is right. Yes.
That is a classic example of where  you put in a rule, where you have
more out of it than you put in I  had no idea that I would get this
kind of effect. I had no idea it  would give such a dynamism. I say
that real creativity makes you  think more, so the software we are
developing, that will make us think  more not less. Just like every
artist or musician or poet wants us  to think more. So, I see a
different future for AI which is  somewhere software is out there to
challenge you. So if these  creations are meant to challenge us,
what do the city's artists make of  them? There is something sexual. In
this artwork. Interesting. Like  bacon, like monkey. You are seeing
bacon and monkey? That is  interesting. Is it a man or ma heen
who does the paintings. Why do you  think? Was a it is done
automatically. How can you tell,  you are right, but, I am interested.
You can see it. For me I am not an  artist, so I would be hard pushed.
What gives it away? There is no  sensibility. Really? You can pick
that up. That is interesting. I  quite like the image, or some of
them any way. It is clear that  trying to mimic something as
elusive as raytivety remains a huge  challenge. -- creativity. But
scientists are starting to put down  the first important building blocks.
100 years the birth of the  visionary mathematician Alan Turing,
we are discover hag the hunt for AI  is a more difficult problem than he
or we ever imagined. Machines have  surpassed us as specific tasks, but
the human brain sets the bar for  artificial intelligence extremely
high, in its ability to constantly  learn new skills. Hard wear and
software, are struggling to mimic  our biology. But maybe there is
another way to create a thinking  machine. That can capture the
versatility of the human brain. I  have come to Berlin, for the
highlight of my journey. To meet a  scientist who believes that for
something to be truly intelligent,  it needs to develop and evolve like
we did at the very beginning of our  lives and as a species. If you want
to understand how to create or  understand intelligence in some way,
we have to capture this  evolutionary adaptive aspect of it.
So we cannot programme  intelligence? We cannot hope to
give it the purpose and do the  learning and, a lot of people think
that today, but it, we have to  understand this continuous adaptive
nature, this flexibility, also this  motivation to continue to learn, to
be excited about new thing, to seek  out new things. Luc is taking me to
a lab on the outskirts of the city.  To show me some robots that are
starting to do something remarkable.  Three of them. They are punch
larger than I thought they were  going to be. -- much. These robots
have been set up to develop much  They are beginning to understand
how their bodies work, by looking  at a reflection of themselves. You
have a mirror, so what is the....  Well the experiment is about that
the robot would learn something  about its own body, because in
order to move in the world, in  order to control it, in order to
also recognise the movements of  another, you need to have some sort
of model of your own body. Right.  The way that the model is going to
be built up is that the robot is  doing actions, and watching itself.
Performing the actions. So to get a  relation between the visual image,
and movement of the motor for. So  here you see this looking at the
its hand. You also see very much  how I was trying to keep balance.
It is very impressive. How all the  motor commands are in an early
phase, right. Well caught! It has  just woken up. I know that feeling.
I think this was a beautiful  example of feedback, and of finding
balance. It is extraordinary. It  really does look like it is
encountering itself for the first  time. But what is even more
remarkable about Luc's robots, is  that once they are able to
recognise themselves, they start to  evolve their own language and
communicate with each other. So  what will happen now? Well, one of
them is going to speak, then he is  going o to ask the other one to do
an action. He is going to invent a  word, because he doesn't have yet
the word to maim that action.  OK, so then he says the word and
this one isn't sure whether what it  could mean, this is a brand-new
word, so he will make a guess, and  if the guess is OK, totally by luck,
well they both know this word and  they know for the future they can
use this word to communicate with  each other. What if he gets it
wrong? If it gets it wrong this one  will say this is not what I had in
mind. He will show it. OK. I mean I  don't know which one is going to
speak first. OK, he is speaking  first. He is doing the action.
is fantastic. OK. Notice how he  looked. So he is... He is doing the
real action. So now there is  another interaction going to happen
again. I don't know which one is  going to speak. OK. Is that the
word it just learned. Kimato?  doing it. He will say yes,
presumably. Yes. So would they  interact with me, to learn this
language? Yes, we could try it.  Do you remember any one of the
words. We will see. In is scary.  Gosh it has asked me to do
something. Kimato. What was that?  Was it that, have I got it right.
OK, you tell me what Kimato is. OK,  that is right. All right. Tomima.
Tomima. I think that was lifting my  right arm. Did it get it right. Yes.
I am learning robot! What would you  say to people that would suggest
that, well this looks simple. They  are doing a few action, swapping
words what is the big deal?  first thing I would say to people,
just try it yourself, OK, just try  to build a robot that stands up.
And then, you already will see its  extraordinary complicated. How fast
do you think the development will  be in of the intelligence of these
robot, such they are beginning to  create a new language between
themselves, but how long will it be  before they are, I don't know,
creating great works of art, the  sort of things that we can do?
know, if we have these two robots  and we let them alone. We come back
at the end o of the day and they  will have developed a vocabulary
for co-ordinating their action,  once they start talking about
shapes and colours and we don't  know when they say Bobita do they
mean a colour or a position in  space. You will be going through
the same process that the robot did  to acquire that language, I mean...
Yeah. The exciting thing about the  robots, is they have their own
evolutionary journey to go on.  Tomima. Which could happen much
quicker than ours. And they open up  the possibility for intelligences
very different from our own to  emerge. That was a striking example
of a merging intelligence,  something which wasn't
preprogrammed. Those robots really  started with a pretty blank sheet,
and by the end of the day just  talking to each other, they had
evolved their own language. A Laing  cadge I couldn't really understand.
Turing asked can machines think? I  think he would be excited by what I
-- a language I couldn't understand.  I have discovered that computers
have far surpassed humans in many  fields but are unlikely to put us
out of business yet. Because these  super machines haven't come close
to capturing the true nature of our  intelligence. But I also learned
how closely our intelligence is  linked to our biology. And that
perhaps the secret to creating  thinking machines lies in letting
But the one thought that has been  creeping up on me throughout all of
this, is that maybe we have become  obsessed with our own abilities.
And are blinded by being human. It  does raise the question about
whether we should be bothering to  try and recreate what is us, when
machines can do something so  different to what human beings can.
www.nieco.com
text nieco nieco